_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: "Wegul"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I am a B.Eng student in the College of Computer Sciences and Electronic Engineering at Hunan University.  
I am currently supervised by Prof. Daibo Liu.

Research Interests
======
Mobile and ubiquitous computing, Internet of Things, Distributed Systems, etc.  
I am broadly interested in systems and networking research.

Publication
======
*“Towards Device Independent Eavesdropping on Telephone Conversations with Built-in Accelerometer”*  
**Weigao Su**, Daibo Liu, Taiyuan Zhang, Hongbo Jiang.  
Ubicomp 2021 (will be published in Issue 4 of IMWUT Vol. 5, December)


Current Projects
======  
*Optimizing Video Streaming for High-speed Rails*  
-Research on performance of LTE network in high mobility settings  
-Research on cuurent adaptive bitrate streaming strategies  
-Design a video delivery framework based on crowdsourcing that provides real-time diagnosis to ensure QoE for passengers on HSR

News  
======
* Oct. 2021: One paper accepted to Ubicomp 2021!  
* Aug. 2021: I received second prize in [National College Student Information Security Contest](http://www.ciscn.cn/)!  
* Sept. 2020: Our team won several national prizes in [RoboMaster 2020](https://www.robomaster.com/en-US/robo/overview?djifrom=nav)!
* Jul. 2020: I joined Networking and Smarting Sensing Systems research group as a research assistant.
* Dec. 2019: I won a provincial outstanding winner and a national second prize in [FILTRP English Public Speaking Contest](https://uchallenge.unipus.cn/2021/news/)!

Commit message:

add href of ldb
Signed-off-by: swg <57892743+wegul@users.noreply.github.com>

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: "Weigao Su 苏维高"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I am currently a senior B.Eng student in the College of Computer Sciences and Electronic Engineering at Hunan University.  
I am supervised by Prof. [Daibo Liu](https://sites.google.com/site/dbliuuestc/home).
#I am currently looking for Ph.D 

Research Interests
======
Mobile and ubiquitous computing, Internet of Things, Distributed Systems, etc.  
I am broadly interested in systems and networking research.

Publication
======
*“Towards Device Independent Eavesdropping on Telephone Conversations with Built-in Accelerometer”*  
**Weigao Su**, Daibo Liu, Taiyuan Zhang, Hongbo Jiang.  
Ubicomp 2021 (will be published in Issue 4 of IMWUT Vol. 5, December)


Current Projects
======  
*Optimizing Video Streaming for High-speed Rails*  
-Research on performance of LTE network in high mobility settings  
-Research on cuurent adaptive bitrate streaming strategies  
-Design a video delivery framework based on crowdsourcing that provides real-time diagnosis to ensure QoE for passengers on HSR

News  
======
* Oct. 2021: One paper accepted to Ubicomp 2021!  
* Aug. 2021: I received second prize in [National College Student Information Security Contest](http://www.ciscn.cn/)!  
* Sept. 2020: Our team won several national prizes in [RoboMaster 2020](https://www.robomaster.com/en-US/robo/overview?djifrom=nav)!
* Jul. 2020: I joined Networking and Smarting Sensing Systems research group as a research assistant.
* Dec. 2019: I won a provincial outstanding winner and a national second prize in [FILTRP English Public Speaking Contest](https://uchallenge.unipus.cn/2021/news/)!
